well show you how to prepare an avocado
what you need to do when you go out
shopping is look for one that's not very
blemished if it was quite heavy when you
touch it it kind of gives a little bit
but you don't it to be really squidgy if
it's squidgy it's probably ripened a
little bit too much this one is a Hass
avocado which is generally what you find
in the shops in in the UK but you can
also get smooth skinned ones but there's
not really a difference in taste so
taking a knife but it on the board and
then you just want to slice through to
it you want to go through to the stone
and then just run your knife around the
avocado like this and then it joins up
in the middle like so once that's
happening you just give it a twist and
then separate it into two then you want
to get the stone out now what chefs do
is they get a knife and they tap it in
and twist it if you're a bit worried
about doing that you perhaps your knife
skills aren't that good just get a
teaspoon and then you just want to run
your teaspoon around the stone like this
and then that pops out nice and easily
like that
now you can't eat it just like that
that's what the French loves to do they
pour in some vinaigrette what I quite
like to do is actually scoop out the
flesh and I do that by taking a big
spoon just running it round like this
now this is quite a nice ripe avocado
which is why it's so easy to do this if
your avocados are a bit of firm probably
the best thing to do is just leave them
out on the side for about two or three
days and they should ripen up nicely so
it ease that away and then it should tip
out nicely like so let's get this one
out as well
there we go now if you're making that
Mexican dip guacamole all you simply do
is mash that up with a fork what I'm
going to do is slice it up I quite like
putting them into fan slices like this
they're nice and long and thin we want
to just pop it out on a plate like this
pile them up now avocados one those ones
they actually go Brown and oxidize if
you don't put anything on it so what I
like to do is put a bit of vinaigrette
which obviously has some acid but you
also use lemon or because it's a
tropical fruit it's really nice to use a
bit of lime so squeeze over a bit of a
line if you're not going to eat it
straight away and then it should keep or
if you're doing a guacamole a really
nice tip is actually take the avocado
stone pop that in your guacamole Bowl
and that should also keep it from going
brown and it really is that easy to cut
up an avocado